> This dataset was publicly made available for research through the work In Modeling wine preferences by data mining from physicochemical properties. In Decision Support Systems, Elsevier, 47(4):547-553. ISSN: 0167-9236. [Cortez et al., 2009]. 
> It is a reference from two datasets, one using red and another white wine samples. The inputs included objective tests (e.g. PH values) and the output was based on sensory data (median of at least 3 evaluations made by wine experts). Each expert graded the wine quality from an option of 11 output attributes between 0 (very bad) and 10 (very excellent).The Number of Instances of red wine were 1599.
> Several data mining methods were applied to model this dataset under a regression approach. The support vector machine model achieved the best results. Several metrics were computed: MAD, confusion matrix for a fixed error tolerance (T), etc. Also, creators plotted the relative importances of the input variables (as measured by a sensitivity analysis procedure).

> Attribute information:
> Input variables (based on physicochemical tests):
   1 - fixed acidity (tartaric acid - g / dm^3): most acids involved with wine or fixed or nonvolatile (do not evaporate readily)
   2 - volatile acidity (acetic acid - g / dm^3): the amount of acetic acid in wine, which at too high of levels can lead to an unpleasant, vinegar taste
   3 - citric acid (g / dm^3): found in small quantities, citric acid can add 'freshness' and flavor to wines
   4 - residual sugar (g / dm^3): the amount of sugar remaining after fermentation stops, it's rare to find wines with less than 1 gram/liter and wines with greater than 45 grams/liter are considered sweet
   5 - chlorides (sodium chloride - g / dm^3): the amount of salt in the wine
   6 - free sulfur dioxide (mg / dm^3): the free form of SO2 exists in equilibrium between molecular SO2 (as a dissolved gas) and bisulfite ion; it prevents microbial growth and the oxidation of wine
   7 - total sulfur dioxide (mg / dm^3): amount of free and bound forms of S02; in low concentrations, SO2 is mostly undetectable in wine, but at free SO2 concentrations over 50 ppm, SO2 becomes evident in the nose and taste of wine
   8 - density (g / cm^3): the density of water is close to that of water depending on the percent alcohol and sugar content
   9 - pH: describes how acidic or basic a wine is on a scale from 0 (very acidic) to 14 (very basic); most wines are between 3-4 on the pH scale
   10 - sulphates (potassium sulphate - g / dm3): a wine additive which can contribute to sulfur dioxide gas (S02) levels, wich acts as an antimicrobial and antioxidant
   11 - alcohol (% by volume): the percent alcohol content of the wine
> Output variable (based on sensory data): 
   12 - quality (score between 0 and 10)
> Missing values: none

> Due to privacy and logistic issues, only physicochemical (inputs) and sensory (the output) variables are available (e.g. there is no data about grape types, wine brand, wine selling price, etc.).
> It was recommended to me that I viewed the datasets as classification or regression tasks, but highlighted that the classes were ordered and not balanced (e.g. there are munch more normal wines than excellent or poor ones according to instructions). Outlier detection algorithms were also recommended to detect the few excellent or poor wines. Even if all input variables were not considered surely relevant. For example, several of the attributes could be correlated to apply some sort of feature selection. So, it was expected that I would test feature selection methods in this analysis.

> For more details about the study, please consult: http://www.vinhoverde.pt/en/
